# Detection-of-COVID-19-on-Chest-CT-Scans-using-Machine-Learning-Algorithms

In this project, I used both COVID-19 CT chest scans image dataset and normal CT chest scans image dataset provided by the Cancer Imaging Archive. Each image was preprocessed with resizing and plotting, before being appended to an array alongside another array consisting of labels for each training image. Due to scikit-learn’s specifications, the shape of the image array had to be reshaped from a 3-D array to a 2-D array; the only difference being the image dimensions were multiplied together. Then, I trained and tested the datasets using four classic Machine Learning algorithms: Logistical Regression, K-Nearest Neighbors, Decision Tree, and Random Forest. Each model provided varying but overall positive results, given that the image dataset provided was very concise and restrictive. Due to time/hardware constraints, only the Logistical Regression and K-Nearest Neighbors models have been optimized.

This project utilizes Python 3.8 using Jupyter Notebook via Anaconda. Four machine learning algorithms: Logistical Regression, K-Nearest Neighbors, Decision Tree, and Random Forest were imported as packages and utilized as supervised learning algorithms. Input data is tagged. Supervised learning establishes a learning process, compares the predicted results with the actual results of the “training data” (ie, input data), and continuously adjusts the predictive model until the predicted results of the model reach an expected accuracy, such as classification and regression problems. [6]
The COVID-19 CT scan image dataset we’ll be using for this project was curated by The Cancer Imaging Archive. In total 199 COVID Chest CT Scans for Training, 199 Normal Chest CT Scans for Training, 20 COVID Chest CT Scans for Testing, 20 Normal Chest CT Scans for Testing were used. All images were resized to 224x224 pixels and plotted . Each image from the training folders is labeled and both are appended into individual arrays. The shape of the image array was resized from a 3D array to 2D array (combining the image dimensions) due to the implemented scikit-learn’s specifications, while the label array was encoded. 
